---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Career Aspirations
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-01-18
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - Career
---


## Create a technical essay (approximately 3-4 paragraphs) that discusses your interests in software engineering and what kinds of skills and experiences you hope to develop in future.

Software engineering is one of the keys to the future. As modern technology continues to evolve, so does the need for software engineers. I hope to one day be able to use the skills I learn in school and the experiences I gain in my career to benefit the lives of others, whether it be through something I create or through passing on my knowledge to future generations. Software engineering is a skill that I hope to use often throughout my career as it may either apply to my job or can be applied to make my job easier.  


Currently my interests lie in embedded systems and robotics. Both of these interests involve software engineering. You need to develop software to work alongside your system, or similarly, you need to develop software to for the robot to function. I hope to further develop my skills in the future to be able to apply them successfuly in my career to develop these interests. 


I have probably mentioned this elsewhere, but I one day hope to serve as an inspriation to the next generation of engineers as my high school robotics mentors have done for me. I hope to be able to take the knowledge and experiences I will have gained and devote my spare time to mentor a robotics team. Robotics was my start for software engineering and it would be fitting if I could have a role in it being the start for the next generation. 
