---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Standards? Disgusting!
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2018-02-07
labels:
  - Javascript
  - Software Engineering
  - Coding Standards
---

...Or so you might think. When you I first hear the words standards, I actually think of school where you are taught to meet certain standards in order to pass a class. When we talk about coding standards, we talk more about standardizing the way you write your code. This overall improves your coding quality and code readability such that whoever
looks at your code can read it. 

ESLint in Intellij was used to set a coding standard for the code we write in the IDE. This feature generates errors or warnings when your tabulate too much, not space properly, or any other general formatting problems. Overall, it is designed so that you keep your code neat. After using it this week, I actually enjoyed following the standard. I already previously followed some type of coding standard, so using ESLint wasn't significantly different. This meant for me, that getting the green checkmark for following ESLint wasn't more effort than the usual amount I put in.  

I think that standards should generally be set and followed. This allows for consistency when people need to merge different parts of a project into one. By setting a standard, it makes it easier for the person merging the projects, rather than having to reformat and rewrite code to conform to a standard. I think following the standard allows for the people who come after you, who use your code, to understand what it is your code does. If you ever have problems with your code, following a standard allows for the people who are trying to help you, to more easily understand your problem. This is similar to the essay about asking smart questions. Showing that you can follow a standard and make it easier for people to read might greatly improve the quality of the help you get for your problem.






